- Hey, John and Benz, how you doing?
- Good, how you doing?
- Fantastic, thanks for being on the podcast today.
We're looking forward to kicking that off.
And just a quick note for everyone listening
in the live stream live, thank you for being here.
If you have questions, comments, feedback,
throw that into the live chat
and we'll try to make that part of the show.
If you're listening afterwards,
well, I guess check out what other people said.
So with that, let's kick this off.
Ben, it's John. Welcome to Talk Python to Me.
Thank you. Thanks for having us.
Yeah, it's great to have you both here. It's going to be exciting, unnerving, I might say, a little bit to have this conversation, but I think it's certainly high time.
You'll never pip install the same way.
- Exactly, exactly.
You just kind of hold your breath as you do at each time.
And you know, I'm also,
this is not a challenge that just the Python world faces.
Right?
This is anyone that has a package manager.
- Yep.
- And the more open, the bigger,
the difficulties, I suppose.
Right?
So NPM, gems, like you name it, right?
- Yep.
- Great.
- If you're a software developer these days,
it probably affects you.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So before we get into the typo squatting,
the supply chain issues and all the stuff in history
and current problems and, you know,
on the positive side, there are solutions and tools
and things that we can talk about as well.
Before we get into all that, let's start with your story,
maybe abbreviated version,
since there's a couple of you,
Ben, how'd you get into programming in Python?
- Programming, I got into just as a kid.
got a computer when I was nine or 10
and tinkered around with it, enjoyed it,
ended up actually taking programming classes
in high school, stuck with it in college,
majoring in computer engineering,
and was a software developer for systems engineering,
that sort of stuff, in the defense industry for 20 years.
- Yeah, what languages did you start in?
- Originally started in C, actually,
originally learned Pascal, then started in C, C++,
and transitioned over to doing more active
Python development.
I just needed a web scraper, needed to collect some data
and analyze it, and Python was the--
Brian: You didn't want to do that in C++?
John: I did not, no.
And now Python is my preferred language for tinkering
or back-end web development.
Pretty much as much as I can use it for, I use Python.
Brian: Yeah, fantastic.
John, how about you?
John: I don't have quite the classic story.
I learned it programming through statistics classes in undergrad.
specialized language called Stata
that a lot of economists use.
Good for legal trials, well-tested.
But I didn't learn Python until I, in grad school,
I took more data science classes
and learned the typical NumPy, Pandas, scikit-learn.
- Right, let us introduce you to,
probably it was called IPython at the time.
- Yeah, exactly.
And now, of course, Jupyter Notebooks, that sort of thing.
- Yeah, fantastic.
It's really interesting just to see all the broad
and diverse ways that Python is growing
and people are coming into it.
It's not that, well, I learned it for programming,
building an operating system and on I went.
There's a lot of languages that are fairly,
or JavaScript, I built it to work on a website.
It draws people in from all sorts of places,
which is awesome, I think.
- It's a meeting ground.
- Yeah, and I think that's one of the strengths, actually,
kind of a sidebar, is that we have all these people
different backgrounds and different motivations
and interests and things they're trying to build
rather than being more like,
well, here's how I build my web app.
How do you build your web app?
Yeah, very cool.
And how about now?
Vence, what are you up to day to day?
- So day to day, you know, kind of put down the keyboard,
at least from the programming perspective.
And I work as a cybersecurity subject matter expert
for In-Q-Tel, which, so I guess my job there
to search for and then work with companies we find in the cybersecurity industry, we're
going to have a high impact on national security, as well as providing kind of advisory services
to our customers in the US government.
Okay, cool.
So what's IQtel and QTel?
Sorry, IQtel I guess it is.
What's the company story there?
Because you both are from the same company.
Yeah, so it's a nonprofit, 501(c)(3), stood up a little over 20 years ago by the CIA to
to basically help, originally the CIA,
but now it's seen most of the intelligence community
and elements of the DoD, basically acquire and adopt
and use cutting edge technology.
They realized a little while ago, around that time,
that a lot of innovation was moving into Silicon Valley
and into other places in industry and startups.
And the traditional acquisition model
that the federal government uses
doesn't play well with those people.
They don't understand it.
So we kind of help as a bridge working with startups,
identifying them and then helping them interact
with the government and conversely helping the government
adopt said technologies.
- Right, right.
So maybe, let me see if I can run a scenario by you.
Maybe there's some Silicon Valley company
that's created like a cool ML thing
that identifies deforestation or something like that.
And the government decides,
oh, this might be really helpful for us for,
I have no reason why.
I have no idea why, but imagine there is a reason, right?
You might help that company like work
with the request for proposals
and the whole crazy government side of things
and get them more in line with what's needed there.
Is that the story?
- Yeah, that's to an extent.
Yeah, I mean, we actually invest in them, take equity
and then we do help them learn how to interact
with the government and also help them shape their product
to meet our customer needs.
- Yeah, okay, cool.
Interesting. I had no idea such a company exists.
John, how about yourself?
- I'm also at IQT.
I work in what's called IQT Labs.
It's an open source applied research and development lab
where we do hands-on research,
mostly in the open source, largely on GitHub.
- Cool.
Yeah, it sounds very, very fun.
Now, let's talk about the supply chain issue,
I guess at a real broad level, right?
And I don't know how you all feel.
I suspect that you have a little more hesitancy or whatever
as you interact with the computers and software
and the internet and so on.
You know, when you, oh, there's a cool new app.
Maybe I'll try that.
Like, you might think a little more carefully about this
than the average, you know, say teenager or whatever.
But-
- There's a little bit of paranoia that comes with this.
- Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
That's what I'm getting at.
I feel like one of the more insidious aspects of this has been the supply chain side of things, right?
Because it's one thing to say that app looks shady, that site looks shady.
Let me just not go there. Let me not click that link. Let me not install that.
But if I were to install, you know, Office Suite X,
and I completely trust the company that makes that,
but there's some library that they got from a third party,
and that third party had been hacked
and they somehow Trojaned that third party thing
and no one's found out yet.
Well, that's, I don't know, that's super scary.
And that's kind of along the lines
of some of the things that we're touching on.
And so I think the most broad one of those
in the recent times has gotta be SolarWinds, right?
- That's certainly what's making the headlines
these days, even what, four or five months later.
That's still a topic of discussion around this theme.
And yeah, I mean, that was a pretty challenging attack
to pull off.
I mean, it took nation state actors months, maybe years
to plan, laying the groundwork, getting things in place,
basically infiltrating SolarWinds development
infrastructure.
Pretty impressive, honestly, that they were able to do it.
And obviously, the impact was enormous.
It was wildly successful.
I think one thing that Vince and I have been interested in, though, while this sort of
attack is very serious and obviously has rightly gathered a lot of attention, there are a number
of other types of attacks, often focusing on open source software, that are actually
more numerous.
How serious they are is actually open to debate, but we are still talking many people affected
and can still have grave consequences, especially if you're the one that's hacked.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- It's gotten less front of the newspaper attention,
but Vince and I still think it's serious.
- I think it's, yeah, I think it's very serious.
I started with this one
because I feel like everyone has heard about this.
Everyone can relate to this, right?
- Yeah.
- Here's an example of a company that supplies network gear
to many of the largest companies
and government organizations around the world.
And this was basically a way to get access to all of those.
- That's right.
- They think it's Russia's cozy beer crew,
but who knows, right?
And it almost doesn't matter.
Another one that I think also is in the news real quick
before we jump into the open source stuff,
this is not open source at all,
but was called Xcode Ghost.
Have you two heard of this?
- Yeah, yeah.
So yeah, I mean, basically what happened here was,
app developers, iOS developers in China,
don't like to download or can't download stuff
from the Apple, official Apple version of Xcode.
So someone put a compromised version of Xcode--
- Let's get it off BitTorrent or something.
How could that go wrong?
- Yeah, I mean, off of some Chinese file sharing site
that app developers over there like to use
'cause it's more convenient.
And it was compromised.
There was basically something that would bake a backdoor
into the ultimate compiled app
that will go into the app store or variant of the app store.
- Yeah, so every app that was built
and published to the app store with Xcode Ghost,
which looked exactly like Xcode,
injected a backdoor malware type of thing into it.
So there was something like 2,500 applications
on the iOS app store that, yeah,
that affected like 128 million people.
So that's bad kinds of things, right?
- Very bad. - Not a good idea.
- I mean, I guess attacking a compiler,
I mean, developers trust their compiler, I would say.
I mean, not being able to rely on that
or feel like you have, and it's very hard to
vet your code, I mean, especially for
closed source or closed-ish source
product like Xcode.
It's very hard to see, is my compiler
compromised or not?
- Yeah, yeah.
And I think this actually is closer
to the open source side of things,
because if you can start to
the tools of the developers building the things.
That's a problem.
Yeah, so let's
talk about the open source side. John,
you pointed out there's many known
attacks over there.
That's right. What's going on?
So,
there's actually a range of attacks, but
I'll mention a couple here and we'll get into typosquatting.
So there is certainly a typosquatting
attack, which we'll discuss extensively today,
which just like domain names, you might have heard,
someone is trying to go to a website and mistypes it a little
or somehow gets confused about how it's spelled,
maybe switching the order of words,
and then ends up someplace that's malicious,
either on the web or if you're downloading a package,
you download a package you think you want, but it's not actually.
And sometimes, not always, sometimes that contains malware
and does things to your computer that you don't want.
That's bad, right?
Bad. Especially if there's arbitrary code execution, meaning they can do what they want because perhaps you've installed it as root.
Right. And well, I think a lot of people who are getting into Python don't realize that when you pip install something, unless it's being installed as a wheel, as a binary wheel, it's running a setup.py as your account.
So whatever your current account is able to do, like you said, if you run it as pseudo, it can do more.
But even if it can just completely wreck your account and get your information, for many people, that's plenty bad on your computer. You don't want that.
Yeah, and it could be your computer, it could be your corporation's computer where you work, or your company's computer.
In this setup.py, you're exactly right, it is a key attack vector.
vector. For many people, it's simply a helpful way to install software, but unfortunately,
some people abuse that specific resource. Yeah, I think it's been critical in the growth
of how software is built. I remember, you know, Ben, you were talking about doing C++ programming.
I remember back in 97, 98, 99, doing C++ programming then, and it felt like whatever you wanted to do,
almost everything you had to build from scratch.
You want a library that does this kind of UI widgets?
Well, how do I build that?
You want a library that has this kind of data structure?
Where do I either find or build that, right?
And now it's just pip install this thing,
pip install that thing.
And the building blocks that we have to compose
are so much more effective, right?
I can take a couple of libraries here
and click them together,
and all of a sudden I've got something
absolutely incredible,
like pulling data from different sources,
creating amazing graphs.
I mean, that is the power of modern software development.
And yet, I guess Corey Adkins out in the live stream
has a nice sort of comment.
It's like, he said, "I didn't realize how naive I was
"thinking packages were vetted like Pip."
- You're not alone, Corey.
You're not alone, join the club.
- Yeah, and it's these incredible building blocks,
these Lego pieces.
There's a lot of faith out there that these are good building blocks.
Not good in the sense they don't have bugs, but good in that they have a good intent.
Well, I think that's one thing that's the key is that it is a challenge here is you have to kind of figure out the intent of the people you're trusting and you are trusting them ultimately.
And you have to hope they do not have malicious intent because inferring that is very challenging.
Yeah.
And it's a it's a double edged sword.
I mean, I agree.
This is it is a powerful change that you can download a couple of libraries and have an amazing app,
potentially in a few minutes, maybe an hour or two.
And this is the dream of code reuse come alive finally.
And it just so happens that there are sometimes downsides.
They can be mitigated.
But unfortunately to the unaware user,
which it's all too easy to be unaware.
It's difficult, actually.
There are serious, there can be risks.
- Yeah, there definitely can.
Kim Van Wick out of the live stream has an example.
A benign example would be Attr, A-T-T-R, versus Attrs.
Both are legitimate packages, but completely different.
Another example would be if I want to install requests,
but I actually just type request, right?
I mean, even auditorily, like they sound like requests.
- Requests. - Easy to do.
- It's even sounds like very similar
with the S versus no S there.
And if somebody says, "Go install requests."
You're like, "Oh, request, pip install request.
"God, I did it."
Like, "Wait, no, no, no, don't do that one."
- Yeah, and it actually happened.
You can find that that attack truly happened,
it affected, at least according to the article
published about it, 20,000 users.
So I don't know how many of them were actually affected.
I haven't, we don't, this is unfortunately
part of the problem. It's hard to track this data, but the example you brought up, I know
you brought it up on purpose. It's serious.
Yeah. And requests with the S is installed millions of times a week or many, many, many,
many times, right?
Yeah.
And so maybe if there's a-
And there's another one that-
Yeah, go ahead.
No, no, go ahead.
Oh, and, you know, we'll talk about this later,
but we found one called pandar, like pan does, but with an R.
And, you know, it's not hard to imagine
just by either confusion or a mistake typing this.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So another area I think that is a little bit interesting
before we dive completely into the package management
type of squatting and related type of issues has to do with a trusted open source thing
going becoming untrusted. And what I mean by that is, there were some examples of things
like Google Chrome extensions being put out there as proper extensions, and then someone
taking over that project, and then putting something, maybe more adware in it or something
somewhat nefarious if not actually malicious.
Or you know, somebody who is running the request is not a great example because it's under
a PSF organization.
But many of the projects are under an individual, right on their GitHub project.
And so if somebody was able to break into that person's GitHub repo, and then they somehow
sneak something into the code, well, does it look wrong?
the person who made that change is the trusted benevolent person who runs this project, right?
They are, if, you know, Guido van Rossum comes in and makes a change, well, who's going to look at
that and go, "Oh, this guy is sketchy. We better really change." Like, it's probably going to be
fine, right? So if someone takes over an account, like, not only do they have access to the code,
and then how it gets pushed out to, you know, potentially gets into the stream that goes to
a PyPI, it's also done by the person who looks like they should be most trusted.
Right? So, you know, things like two-factor auth and just
securing your GitHub and things along those lines seems extremely important as well.
Absolutely. I mean, what you're describing with account takeovers happened numerous times.
And there's variants on it too, where there's some single developer who's overworked,
doesn't use the project they create anymore,
they hand it over to someone who ends up
putting a backdoor in it or some sort of malicious payload.
I mean, that's happened.
And then also people take advantage of the fact
that not only you have your GitHub profile secure,
but you also have to have your PyPy or RubyGems
or where you actually publish your packages, people run.
So there's kind of two areas for potential attack
and also people take advantage of the,
most people, at least me anyway,
And when I would vet software, I would go look at GitHub.
And then I would download--
I wouldn't download it from GitHub.
I would download it using pip or whatever.
And that kind of dissonance or whatever you want to call it
is another opportunity for confusion and malfeasance.
Yeah, and so these things are hard to detect.
But I guess the area that you all have done a lot of research
in, you've built some tools around,
And probably the biggest area is around
the package management side of things, right?
- That's right.
- Yeah, so we've talked about typo squatting
and some of the challenges
where people might mistype things.
And you talked about some examples
where you found packages that look like
they were intended to be installed by accident,
you know, to catch those.
If there's 7 million people type,
you know, 7 million times pip install requests is typed,
chances that a couple of those are misspelled
or enough of those are misspelled is pretty high.
But there were actually quite a few examples.
Like for example, the register had an article.
When was this?
This was, this is recent March, 2021.
The title is Python Package Index Nukes,
3,653 malicious libraries uploaded
soon after security shortcomings highlighted.
- That's right.
This is, there's really a longer historical narrative too,
to include this, I'll call this political activism,
anti-typo squatting activism,
where this, you could call it an attack,
is really about drawing attention to this risk.
- Yeah, I feel like a lot of these were people like,
look, I'm proving to you this could actually happen, right?
I'm proving by creating this thing that uploads as requests
with the SNT swapped.
But were there actually viruses put up there?
What is the actual harm then?
- Yeah, so not all of these are.
This one and a number of others,
we can discuss those if we have time,
were largely benevolent, but demonstrated the risk.
But yes, there have been at least by our calculations,
40 known malicious typo squatters
on the Python package index, affecting thousands of users.
We actually published a blog post on this.
It's something like Python typo squatting
is about more than typos.
And so yes, this has happened.
I don't know the exact persons that it has affected.
We just don't have that data.
I'm sorry if it affected you.
And we published this and got some debate on Hacker News.
And this is at the point where Vince and I said,
oh, there's really something here.
There's a broad audience that hasn't had a voice
that cares about this.
- Yeah.
I mean, it could have been nothing, right?
If I'm a student at a university
and I install it on a lab computer.
- No big deal.
Like who trusts those lab computers, right?
- You shouldn't.
I mean, not just because like somebody could have installed something bad on it,
but there's,
there are college students who could be installing all sorts of just,
you know, pranks and other kinds of stuff.
So you should just treat those things with extreme caution.
Yes, they're fully canary. But on the other hand,
if this is a data scientist working at like a major corporation or an agency
and that happened to them,
it could be the thing that opens the door to, you know,
access to the entire network and all sorts of lateral movement, right?
That's right. There's even one of the earliest pieces of anti-typo squatting
activism comes from Nikolai Schacher,
who was writing his undergraduate thesis at the time in Europe.
And he showed that over a few weeks,
he got over 17,000 downloads of a series of typos, five packages,
including .mil, the military addresses
of the United States military.
So it is certainly possible that people
in a more secure organization that really values security
could accidentally be the victim of type of squatting.
- Yeah, absolutely.
And the fact that it came out of a .mil domain shows
that yeah, that bad example could also happen.
And also his thesis got covered on Ars Technica, which--
- That's right.
Coolest undergrad thesis ever.
- Exactly, that's way better than anything I did in college
and how it got covered.
- Me too, oh yeah.
- Yeah, fantastic.
And then there was this project called Pyto-squatting.
- Yeah, it's a play on--
- Yeah, like a play on typo squatting, right?
- It's a play on typo squatting.
It's a clever one.
and Benjamin Balderbach and Hannah Beck,
who are open source software activists, developers,
also a journalist,
they've really had a multi-year effort
pointing out the dangers here,
not simply criticizing,
but trying to help Python Software Foundation
and the Warehouse or PyPI crew raise money
and build a consensus around
trying to make this infrastructure safer.
Yeah, yeah. So they had this project called Pyto squatting, but that actually got closed
down. That's right. Yeah, because they said that the, the PS, what do they call it? The
PSRT, Python security response team. That's a PSRT. And I'm like, wait, there's a Python
security response team. Oh, yeah. They respond to emails too. They're good. Yeah. Okay. So
This is an organization, a group of people
under the PSF banner that basically triage
these types of concerns, right?
- That's right, that's right.
- Okay, yeah, I'll link to their page on python.org
and they have their email there.
They also have rules for different types of disclosure,
like whether you should email them, do other things, yeah.
- That's right, and if you find a malicious package
or even a package that you think is very suspicious,
this is who to contact.
And they're diligent and timely.
- So what do you two think about
how this should be disclosed?
People out there listening, they find something.
Should they go to Hacker News and say,
"Look, this horrible thing I found on PyPI
"or on NPM or whatever."
Should they quietly disclose that
to the security response team,
and then talk about it after it's been removed and fixed.
So what's the flow for disclosure?
- Seems like it would follow,
you know, any other responsible disclosure process
for kind of traditional bugs, exploitable bugs
that are vulnerabilities.
Where it would be nice if you find a problem,
contact maybe the Python security team,
get in contact with the developer, get it fixed,
probably get the package pulled down if in fact it is malicious.
Then yeah, it'd be nice to have some reporting mechanism so that
everyone who uses it could be identified.
The first part, as John Speed was saying,
the Python Salve Foundation and the PSRT do a good job,
a great job of being on top of it,
being timely, being responsible.
It's much harder to notify.
there's no authentication when you download one of these packages.
It's very hard to know who's been affected.
Maybe just promoting that more would be helpful,
but then people have to know where to look and that they need to look at all.
>> It's like the Xcode ghost thing.
There was 2,500 apps that were backdoored,
and I think only the top 25 were even disclosed.
If there was a list of 2,500 apps,
Are you going to go cross compare?
No, you know, no normal person is going to cross compare that announcement with their phone.
Right.
And it's, it's just such a challenge.
And I feel like, you know, here we had the same thing, right?
We had 3,653 packages removed.
Well, are you going to go check if you had those?
It's extra hard because it's, you didn't intend to ever have them, right?
You didn't intend to swap the S and the T when you type requests, but you did.
- Yeah.
- And you accidentally, almost unknowingly got it
most likely, right?
And so I do think it's really hard to push this out
as an awareness thing and like,
hey, you should know that this happened.
And so just go check, right?
The checking, I think it's really tricky.
- Yeah, I mean, like many software problems,
you need to solve it with more software and-
- You gotta solve it with AI probably, that's gonna work.
- Oh, you definitely have to solve it with AI.
And I think one thing that's helpful
and could be part of that process,
but isn't always unfortunately,
is also taking a collection,
or taking that artifact that you found,
let's say a Python package that was malicious,
and making sure it gets to somewhere
where it can be studied
and hopefully future attacks prevented.
And so for Python and a couple of other languages,
There is actually an interesting project
that has a very colorful name.
It's called Backstabbers Knife Collection.
Sounds very scary and malicious,
but it is actually yet another enterprising grad student
trying to collect malware samples,
especially of interpreted languages.
Python is one of them.
And so that there can be a community of researchers
and hopefully then companies that can fight these packages.
So that would be another thing I would add to the list.
Yeah, there you go.
Mark Ohm is the main person associated with that and has written some interesting papers and great stuff.
And so I urge you if you come upon this and you say, how do I act responsibly here?
Do the things Vince says and also maybe grab a sample and give it to the Backside Research Collection or another similar repository.
Yeah, interesting. Okay.
Have I just messed up my computer by visiting this web page as well?
I don't think so, but there is--
- I'm just teasing.
- Yeah, okay, okay.
I mean, I can't guarantee anything though, but--
- No, of course, of course, of course.
Before we get too far on,
Corey Adkins also asked,
"When we were talking about messing up your computer,
"the lab computer, so on," he asked,
"Could installing these types of things
"also affect shared server space?
"On my IaaS land where I have a shared server
"running for however much,
Someone else does something bad.
I mean, theoretically, sure,
it depends on the permissions I would think.
Yeah, if you install some dependency
that has a keylogger baked into it,
or I don't know, or you know,
some sort of file collector and it has
permission to traverse all directories,
then yeah, I could certainly see a
scenario that was possible.
I mean, I haven't heard of that
happening specifically, but.
There's nothing preventing it,
theoretically.
Yeah, if you had a series of virtual machines,
it's pretty tricky from one virtual machine
to escape to another.
But I believe there have been examples.
But those are exceedingly rare, those sorts of vulnerabilities,
right?
Yeah.
That's right.
So while we're on this topic, I want to throw out an idea.
And then we'll talk about some of the tools you built.
But I feel like we're right in the middle of this notification
thing.
We've got all these packages.
they've been identified,
they have been downloaded, we can see that.
We probably even have IP addresses,
which you can reverse look up to DNS names
as probably how those attributions were given.
But it happens so often in so many different places, right?
Like if I've got a continuous integration story
that builds a Docker container that pushes to a Docker hub,
and then my production grabs that from that container,
The place where the problem happened is not the place where the problem is, right?
It's probably GitHub or some other CI tool.
We have a really nice thing for this in the account space,
Have I Been Pwned by Troy Hunt, which is a really nice project.
I definitely recommend people go there and enter their email address.
>> And prepare to be horrified.
Yeah, and prepare to be horrified. There's 11.2, 11.3 billion accounts that have been
breached, which is odd because it's more than all the humans, but we have more than one
account. So there it is. But yeah, so you put your email in there and then in the future,
well, historically as well, but then in the future you say, if something has happened
and your email appears in some kind of password dump, password breach or account or informational
breach, you'll get an email saying, Hey, we found something
that should be concerning to you check it out.
I would love to see something like this for pip. Right?
Something that says I pip install this thing. And it just
has a record of, here's my account. These are the things
I've pip installed. If there turns out to be a problem with
one of those, notify me that that had happened.
That does sound really useful.
I don't think it exists.
- I don't think it exists either.
And it shouldn't just be a pip thing.
It should be an NPM thing.
It should be a gem thing.
It should be a crate thing.
It should be something that,
like just a little bit of a wrapper that says,
I would like to opt in to saying,
here's my UUID,
here's my email address,
and here's the list of things that I've installed.
If it turns out that one of them is horrible,
just let me know.
(laughing)
It's so sensible, it makes me laugh.
- Yeah.
- Well, there's an idea out there as well.
But this is way far down the line, right?
This is, oh, we know this has happened.
We know who's done it.
We know who's been affected and so on.
But starting a little bit further back,
you all have built some tools to go
and start at the beginning and say,
well, let's look and see what might be out there
that is bad, right?
This is the tool used to find Pandar instead of Pandas.
- That's right.
I mean, I think the first idea you had is the crucial one,
which is that you need to know that there's been a
compromise in order to report it.
And right now it's surprisingly hard to know that.
So we're not the only one to devise a tool or approach to
finding malicious packages on the Python package index,
but we took a particularly simple one and we said,
can we use simply the metadata, especially the name,
but some other information too of packages,
and then look at just the most downloaded packages
and check who has names that are very similar
to those packages.
And we do--
- This is where AI comes in.
- Yeah, need crazy AI at this point.
You do get a lot of false positives.
People have similar names
just because the packages are related.
It's fine.
There's no problem inherently with having a similar name,
But we cracked open those packages too.
This was some very boring Saturday mornings of mine.
And simply scanned through the code
looking for anything that's suspicious.
And lo and behold, we found one called Pandar
that was actually doing key logging.
It was a proof of concept.
It's unlikely that it actually would have worked.
But we reported it to the Python security response team,
security@python.org, they said, "Yep, not good."
Yanked it.
And it was just an example of it's not that hard to find them.
And we were showing, yet again, with a pretty simple
demonstration that it's not that hard.
Interesting.
Yeah, so I think that's really cool.
So basically, the tool is about finding--
given popular packages, finding ones that are oddly similar.
And then there's like a,
let me go and see what this one's about.
- That's right.
And so there's a couple of additional checks
to help anyone using it.
You can find it, it's an open source written in Python
tool, command line tool.
It also checks things like, for instance,
is the description of the package on PyPI,
is it very similar?
So that what you are witnessing as someone
who's trying to not only type of squat the name,
but in some sense like squat the broader metadata
or almost like the copyright of the package.
- Right, 'cause you want it to look as similar as possible.
- Exactly.
Like a camouflage.
- Yeah, are you guys familiar with Snyk?
- Yes. - Yes.
- There's a project, and geez, I'm forgetting.
- Are you thinking of the advisor project?
- Yes, sneak package advisor.
- Yeah, it's neat. - That's it.
It's super neat.
Yeah, that's what I was looking for.
No, that's not how I wanna spell it.
Yeah, and so that thing is pretty cool.
Let me, so the reason I bring this thing up
is you can come over here and I can type in a project
like requests or whatever, and it'll tell us eventually,
it'll tell us the package health score,
and it'll tell us things like there's this many PRs
that have been open and closed.
there's this many contributors, there's this many people participating,
the maintenance looks like, so on.
So one thing that I think would be cool
would be to take this number plus a misspelling
and say, if that number is really, really low
for a package that should be really, really high,
that's a challenge, right?
Like if you look at the GitHub repo that is delivering this thing
and it doesn't look right,
if it's not associated with something that seems kind of hard to replicate,
like a GitHub repo with many people participating over a long period of time.
Yeah.
That seems like that could be a good flag as well.
Yeah, certainly.
It certainly seems like there's an abundant opportunity to build
something into the actual download client to the pip or a wrapper around pip
where it checks these sorts of things and
create speed bumps for you as you are trying to download something or use a package so that
says, "Hey, this looks suspicious. Have you thoroughly checked this?" And I think your
idea could contribute to exactly such a tool or tools. Yeah, yeah, very neat. So you've been
working on this and Martin Karnagouski created this thing called Aurora and also reached out
and said, "Hey, I'm also working on this."
And so, yeah, tell us about this thing called Aurora.
- Yeah, so we got an email last fall
after publishing this blog post,
and he said, "Hey, I've been working on a similar tool.
"Not only does it check this metadata,
"but we even do static analysis
"of the entire Python package index."
And we said, "Martin, that's awesome.
"Let's work together."
And so over the past six months, roughly now,
In an open source collaboration between a number of us at IQT Labs and Martin Tarnagouski,
we have further refined Aura, which truly is designed to do a static analysis of the
entire Python package index, open source tool, you can find it.
He releases his data on a...
Try as best as you can to release it regularly.
We've also built a tool called Aura Borealis.
Key thing, his aura produces 50 gigs of output when it's done scanning the entire Python
package index.
No human can wade through that.
And I suspect also the PyPA, the Python Package Authority folks probably don't want everyone
downloading that much data all the time.
No, it's exhausting and creates so many database issues and other things.
So we've been working on a tool called Aura Borealis that you pulled up that is a front
end that makes it easier to use the dataset that Martin creates with this tool, Aura.
So we -- this wouldn't necessarily be part of PyPI, though, of course, it could be, but
We imagine this as a tool for organizations or persons that
need to have global knowledge, either global knowledge
about the entire Python package index
and to rank and assess potential threats and go look for those
and then take appropriate action,
or even individual developers that are really
curious about packages.
This makes it easy.
The Aura Borealis isn't yet live,
but we hope to make it live this summer.
Aura is an in-production tool.
It works.
So go check it out.
Yeah.
This looks like it's really handy.
So the idea is basically it's going to run forever,
and that's going to generate tremendous amounts of data.
Maybe just put a web front end on top of that static data
for everyone to explore instead of generating over and over.
Exactly.
Instead of having to generate over and over,
now having 50 gigs and having to write your own custom,
probably Python script that you'll have to optimize
and blah, blah, blah.
Yeah.
So Kim out in the live stream just says I accidentally typed sink instead of sneak,
which also is hard to spell anyway, because it's like a non-common spelling.
So, which is an excellent way to demonstrate making a
typo and getting the wrong package.
I have no idea what that's going to return.
I'm not going to pull it up.
Yeah.
Podcast, podcast imitates life, imitates art, imitates compromise.
Exactly.
All right.
Well, so this is really,
how would I use the Aurora data
and the Aurora Borealis project?
I guess also we should talk about this
from different angles, right?
Maybe I'm a CISO at a company
and I'm concerned that all my people are psyched
about data science and Python or NPM and web front ends
and they just make me nervous all day
and I wanna get on top of it.
So as somebody who is concerned about,
I would like to know what's happening
in my software supply chain,
or maybe I run, I maintain pandas
and I'm really upset that pandar exists
and I want to now be able to defend my package.
Like it seems like there's different use cases
and people out there.
- That's right.
I think if you're a company
and you have a group of software developers
and you have the, let's say a security team
that helps vet packages.
So perhaps you put those packages in an internal repository
so that then developers know that they're cleared to use
or Borealis will help you do that.
We're glad to set up pilots and discuss,
you can email me, jmeyers@iqt.org.
But there's also other angles too.
There's just, you're a developer
and you wanna make an informed choice.
The static analysis tool and its output
can help you with that, or Borealis.
And I think there is also, you're right,
there's a maintainer angle,
and also a PyPI administrator angle,
where you want to either protect a set of namespaces
close to your package,
or you care about the health of the entire ecosystem.
And those are all possible user types.
- Yeah.
And we could probably use your PyPI scan
to go and say, look, can I say look for things similar to my package name?
Yeah, that's right. And we built that into Aura Borealis too now. So in some ways,
PyPI scan was a demo and still useful as a command line tool, but Aura Borealis
and Aura has that now built in. Are you all going to put an API on top of this?
Well, good question. That would be cool. The thing that is tricky, like
everything in life is it costs money,
and engineering resources and time.
I certainly have a vision,
and if I don't do it, someone else should do it,
go make a lot of money,
of creating a technical infrastructure
that every single package
and every single new version of every package,
PyPI, NPM, et cetera,
gets scanned, a variety of scans,
static analysis, dynamic analysis, metadata analysis,
and that gets stored in a database
that where you and I can go make API calls
and get the information that we should on these packages.
That could be, you know, there could be a free tier
and then if you really need to make a lot of calls,
a paid tier, but someone should do it, I think.
- Yeah.
Yeah, it would be neat to know, you know,
like you said, integrate into say pip even.
So if I pip install something,
it could even flag it and say,
hey, no, actually we're gonna block that.
- That's right.
- Preemptively because it's got some low score
unless you do like a --force,
like no really, I mean it.
- Yeah, exactly.
- It's something that'll sort of slow it down
as you call them speed bumps.
- Yeah, so I hope someone does something similar to that.
We have plans, but no active development underway.
All right, so that sets the stage that some of the tools out there at least to identify
that there are potentially bad packages.
And it's also, I guess, you know, worth pointing out.
If we go over, say, to PyPI, there's over 300,000 packages over there.
And if there are 40 actually malicious ones, right, the chances are low.
They're not very high.
So people shouldn't be running for the hills
in complete panic or anything, I don't think, from this.
But at the same time, we should be careful.
We should be cautious.
So what can we do?
- That's the tough question.
Vince, do you wanna start?
You want me to go?
- Sure.
I mean, there's a lot of things that we can do.
I mean, John Speed's hit on a few of them
about just kind of being more deliberate,
checking your work before you download something.
And also, when you're considering dependencies,
you mentioned C++ in the late 90s.
I vaguely remember those times.
Remember when Boost came out, it was a big deal.
- Oh yeah.
- You actually had a dependency.
- I remember reading more books.
- Right.
- Less internet, more books to make things work.
- So yeah, we moved on from that.
But ultimately, it is worth considering,
do you actually need this dependency?
Your left pad, and NPM is a funny canonical example,
broke the internet because people didn't feel like typing
one line of their own code.
They wanted to import a left padding dependency.
- I do feel that's a really good example.
And certainly left pad came to mind,
not as a malicious thing,
but just as a supply chain Jenga tower type of thing.
And somebody pulled too much on a part of the Jenga tower
and it came down.
I feel that the JavaScript community
has way smaller Lego pieces than the Python community.
Right?
The blocks that you click together here are larger.
So I feel like there's just fewer in number external dependencies
on average in my Python experience than my JavaScript experience.
Yeah, I think that's accurate.
I mean, numbers vary.
I've seen NPM, people who use NPM, so JavaScript developers,
The average package in npm has 94% dependency.
Other dependencies, only 6% is your actual code you've written.
Most of the modern languages, meaning JavaScript, Python,
and some others are in the 90-ish range,
and then you see C++ are much lower,
Java somewhere in the middle.
So yeah, Python is, I would say, lower than JavaScript,
but much higher than the legacy languages
that are historically used.
So be deliberate means things like,
don't just as fast as you can type pip install, whatever.
Type pip install and then carefully type out the package name.
Maybe give it a quick read before you hit go.
>> No, we're just copy and paste. Don't type it all.
>> Yeah. For example,
if I'm over here on PyPI,
there's a copy button I can click and it'll do exactly that.
>> Right.
>> That's an option.
Yeah, so yeah, just being a little more thoughtful
and kind of looking at the dependency chain as well
before you download something, which is much harder than it should be
to be completely bare.
That's helpful to know that maybe the top level
you are using JOSKI.
I have no idea what JOSKI is.
You should pip install that right now. Let's see what happens.
Let's just see what happens.
Here's an example of one of those that should rank lower.
No offense if this is your project,
but it literally has zero stars, zero forks.
Its features are to do, its requirements are to do.
Its PyPI version banner is not found.
And I mean, there's a couple of,
it is only four minutes old.
They may be working on it.
- Yeah, sure.
- Yeah, but if it has dependencies,
this one probably doesn't,
but you know, take a look at those too.
Just makes them, there's nothing
egregiously wrong at a minimum.
- Yeah, that's one of the things that makes it
kind of insidious and hard to see is the thing I directly look at may be fine,
but the person who maintained that,
did they make a mistake in the things that they depend upon or maybe,
you know, transit, like follow that chain, that graph down far enough, right?
There's a lot of layers that could be happening along the way.
Yeah. It ends up looking a web. not surprisingly, just because of that,
most of most vulnerabilities inside of,
of packages like this are in the transitive dependencies,
the ones below the first layer,
the dependencies of dependencies.
- Interesting, yeah, I can see that.
- So what, oh, sorry.
- Well, so you can pip install the thing.
What about pinning the version?
I know there was some issues
about having a private PyPI server,
which I think is a good idea
where you whitelist packages in.
You say, we approve these things,
and only these things get installed.
And then if you want to use a new one,
we've got to opt it in.
and then now it's part of the organization.
That seems like something you could do, right?
There's PyPI server that you could set up
that is a sort of pass-through layer there.
But then there was also the vulnerability
of the version mismatch.
Like if there's a higher version of that thing
on a public, on the public PyPI,
then your local one.
So people were putting in like data layer version 70,
you know, and then it's like,
oh, there's a newer version out there for me to go get.
So I'll get that even though it was internal,
meant to be internal only, right?
So there's these challenges,
but what do you think about a private whitelist server?
- Certainly seems valuable and seems like it's
another speed bump as John Speed was calling them.
Yeah, I mean, then you run into scenarios
like the one you just described,
where it's kind of, I guess that's undefined behavior,
potentially, or at least not well-known behavior
that it maybe isn't necessarily the most intuitive.
So even that might not be enough.
So then, yeah, the pinning could help.
Then, of course, there's the challenge
of maintaining your pin at the profitable level, which
adds more effort on the developers
to maintain up-to-date dependencies, which--
At least publicly, yeah, publicly
we have dependabot on GitHub, which
is way more of a pain than it should be to use.
Because if you've got 10 updates,
it'll issue 10 PRs which conflict with themselves.
Anyway, that's a long story,
but it's still at least some automation that says,
hey, there's a new version of this, here's the change log.
And we also have the CVE security checks of Dependabot,
which are really good.
- Yeah, unfortunately, most of these
type of squatting or just general supply chain attacks
don't end up in the NVD as a CVE.
- Yeah, who's gonna study this one
and then not just say, take it down, right?
It's living in the shadows, right?
>> Yeah. NPM does a good job with
their advisory service of saying this is
a malicious package and this is why we removed it.
But not all package managers do that,
and even so then you have to go to all the most of
those developers are
developing multiple languages these days,
so it's hard to keep track.
>> Yeah. What about
having isolated environments for trying out new packages?
So for example, one of the things I'm trying to do
is if I'm checking out any new package I have to pip install,
maybe that happens in a Docker container,
then I throw away the container.
Or possibly a VM with snapshotting on,
and then I roll back the snapshot periodically.
Yeah, those both sound like great ways
to have good hygiene and not isolate the potential blast
radius of a potentially malicious package.
- Yeah, it's one thing to say,
here's a thing we want you to check out
and it's on PyPI and it's really well known,
but it's, you know, you gotta explore new things
that aren't super well known yet, right?
So how do you install that?
Right, so I think some kind of blast store,
like you said, like Docker, like a VM,
is not a terrible idea.
- Yeah, it's a good one.
- Let's see, what else?
There's the Open Source Software Security Foundation.
- Yeah, that's right.
- Yeah, Open SSF.
- Open SSF, clearly a reference to Open SSL.
Yeah, another well-known software supply chain compromise
with widespread impact.
It's worth sort of pointing out that this group,
for anyone who becomes very enthusiastic about open source
software, supply chain security in particular,
has become a meeting ground where both companies,
but also persons interested in the sort of topics
we've been discussing today and more,
have set up a series of working groups.
There's six roughly, and meet every few weeks.
Open community, fun, interesting people,
either interested in the topic or actively working
to give back and contribute.
It's run by the Linux Foundation,
and we would highly recommend it
as a place to find other like-minded persons
if you care about these sorts of topics.
- Yep, fantastic.
And then there's the further on down the road,
which we've touched on a couple of times,
but maybe we can encourage some enterprising person,
people, group out there to go after it,
like a hardened pip or, you know,
we have things that are sort of on top of PIP,
pip-tools, we've got pip ENV,
- pip X. - We've got pip X,
I'm a big fan of pip X,
the isolation of that gives us kind of neat.
And just, I can see like a PIPSEC
or something along those,
those are PIPs, maybe a plural PIPs,
I don't know for pip security,
but something like that,
that incorporates some of these ideas,
maybe it checks in, you say like,
I don't want to install any package
that is not in the top 1000.
- Sure.
- Of popular package,
except for what I whitelist in on top of that,
or something along,
or check with Aurora Borealis about the score,
or check with the have I been pipped
or whatever that thing ever would become, right?
Talk about like where you might see things going, you two.
- Yeah, well, there's been a couple,
I'll call them starter projects in the hardened pip area.
There even was one called PIPsec.
You can find it on PyPI, but it's really,
there's nothing there, unfortunately, at least yet.
That namespace is claimed.
The maintainers who we mentioned,
Benjamin Balderbach especially,
are interested in doing some, just haven't had time,
other busy priorities.
And I think there is a lot of potential
to build out that idea and create something
that could be useful to the average developer.
JavaScript has a tool that has at least
a moderate popularity called mpq that does this.
And I think it's time for the Python community
to see if there's something similar.
- Yeah, I would love to see something like that.
Another thing is Google, thank you Google,
has become a visionary sponsor of the PSF.
And specifically, they want their funds
to go towards critical supply chain security improvements,
developing productized malware detection for PyPI,
prototype a dynamic analysis infrastructure.
So this sort of gets at the head at,
maybe there's something that the PyPA and PyPI.org
could do on their end without even necessarily changing PIP, right?
PIP's going to go talk to some API there and it goes, "Yeah, no, not this one."
Or you can upload it, like with upload a new package, it goes, "No,
we don't want to accept it."
- And Dustin Ingram of the Python Software Foundation at PyCon just recently devoted
his talk to talking about Python and the software supply chain issues that we've
discussed today and writ large to include typosquatting.
And it's clear that there's energy and willingness
from UN core members of warehouse
and Python software foundation to tackle these issues.
And so we're glad to see that.
- Yeah, it'd be great to see something like that happening.
I think layers as well, right?
That's how you talk about security often is it's not just,
well, you have a strong password and you're fine.
Like, well, and maybe you have two factor authentication
and maybe you run as lower permissions
and, and, and, and, right?
like layers.
So this could be one of the layers,
but not necessarily all of them.
- Yeah, I should note that we even,
a couple of us at IQ2 Labs even put in an issue recently
that on warehouse that might interested some parties here.
It's issue 9527, you can also find it
at short.iqt.org/issue, just a redirect.
And we essentially call for something like
social distancing for the top Python package indexes.
So that for very popular package names,
the package names that are close by are blocked off.
So that, not saying that anybody who chooses those names
is malicious, but just so malicious people can't choose them.
Feel free to upvote that.
We've been discussing this with some of the members
of the warehouse team.
- So I think, sorry.
- But as, yeah, so your proposal is that
Pandar should not have even been allowed, right?
Given that the package pandas is so popular,
minor variations on its spelling
should basically be blocked or maybe redirect to pandas
and say, with a warning, like,
you tried to install Pandar,
did you mean to install pandas?
- That's right.
- Or something like that.
So it's a way to build in guardrails so that the unwary don't fall prey to this.
Yeah, I think that that's personally my first impression is that that's a good idea. It's worth it that we don't need request and requests and requester.
And the potential harm is higher than the value of reusing very, very similar names.
Yeah, we agree. There's obviously trade-offs.
Yeah. Bence, what do you think? You must agree with this.
I do agree with that. I definitely supported this. And I know one other thing that's under
consideration that's relevant is namespacing.
So if you can, Kenneth Wrights is the request guy.
He has his namespace.
You go to his namespace, you're less likely to mistype that
and have someone, the namespace, and have someone
who has claimed the same package within their own namespace.
So possible, but it's another layer,
I guess as you were describing it.
- Yeah, it makes the commands,
you got to type a little bit longer,
but it makes it really clear where it's coming from.
I mean, that's what the point of namespaces and programming is.
It's really clear what library it comes from
or what part of your code it comes from,
because it's grouped together in a namespace.
As well.
I know Go has done--
used that to great success.
Yeah, Kim Benwick out there put a cool comment
that's sort of related to that, talking
about the private PyPI server that's redirecting out.
It would help if the private PIs--
if you had an option to prevent the account uploading images
from pulling images with a certain prefix,
for example, if everybody named their packages,
ABC something at the company,
you could say, ABC is private,
ABC star is private and never ever,
you know, go look beyond here for that type of thing.
I think that that's pretty interesting.
- Yeah, that's a good idea.
- Yeah, I think it seems super simple and a good idea.
I agree.
All right, gentlemen, well, very cool
to talk about this stuff.
Like I said, it's gonna make all of us
a little bit more nervous, I suspect.
And for example, Corey Adkins out there said,
I also just found an article on malicious Docker images.
Now I am paranoid, which, welcome to our world.
- I'm sorry, welcome.
- Yeah, yeah, I've been there for a while.
All right, before I let you two out of here though,
real quickly, let's answer, I'll ask you the two questions
at the end of the show, of course.
So if you're gonna write some Python code,
what editor do you use?
- I use Vim if I'm in the command line,
but if I have the fortune to be outside of it, use Sublime.
- Right on, I suspect JupyterLab is also in there.
- Definitely Jupyter is in there.
- Yeah, and Benz?
- Primarily PyCharm.
Yeah, I mean, I'll use Vim if I'm already in a command line,
but yeah, that's not as often these days,
so PyCharm is just my idea of choice.
right on and then a notable PyPI package,
something that's like, oh, people should know about this.
- Check out one called NetworkML.
It's a package related to machine learning
and network traffic.
The lead maintainer is Charlie Lewis of IQT Labs.
You can go find it on PyPI.
- Yeah, fantastic.
So machine learning plugins for network traffic.
So it identifies like anomalies
and other weirdnesses like that.
- Yeah, it parses network traffic
and one of the cool things it does is it helps identify
what sort of device is being observed.
So is this thing a printer
or is this thing a personal computer?
Is it an Active Directory controller, et cetera?
- Is it a canary?
- Awesome, all right, well, thank you both
for shedding a light on lots of what's happening,
some of the things that are being done
and what might also be done as well.
So final call to action, people that want to get involved,
maybe do more, become more aware, what do you all say?
- Yeah, I mean, there's plenty of work to be done.
OpenSSF is a very welcoming, relatively new organization
that has a nice list of stuff to do.
Python Software Foundation also actually has an active list
of items they would like to work on,
some of which are relevant to this topic.
So that'd be two great places to start.
And I'll point you back towards that GitHub issue.
Feel free to chime in.
I think there's definitely potential
over the next few months.
Additionally, we're actually working on a survey at IQT Labs
called on secure code reuse.
So if you want to help build the research foundations for this,
you can find this survey at short.iqt.org/survey.
And we're trying to understand the developer or data
scientists or other programming professionals' experience
of package reuse.
So that's another way.
So hopefully this survey informs future tools.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Well, thanks for the work that you all are doing
and thanks for being on the show.
- Thanks for having us.
- Bye. - Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]